Add doc for check-inject (#13082)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/check-inject/index.md

---
title: Verifying Istio Sidecar Injection with Istioctl Check-Inject
description: Learn how to use istioctl check-inject to confirm if Istio sidecar injection is properly enabled for your deployments.
weight: 45
keywords: [istioctl, injection, kubernetes]
owner: istio/wg-user-experience-maintainers
test: no
---

> `istioctl experimental check-inject` is a diagnostic tool that helps you verify if Istio sidecar injection will occur for a specific webhook in your pods. Use this tool to check if the sidecar injection configuration is correctly applied to a live cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`istioctl experimental check-inject` is a diagnostic tool that helps you verify if specific webooks will perform Istio sidecar injection in your pods. Use this tool to check if the sidecar injection configuration is correctly applied to a live cluster.
```

## Quick Start

> To check if Istio sidecar injection did/didn't(or will/won't) occur for a specific pod, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check why Istio sidecar injection did/didn't (or will/won't) occur for a specific pod, run:
```

{{< text syntax=bash >}}
$ istioctl experimental check-inject -n <namespace> <pod-name>
{{< /text >}}

For a deployment, run:

{{< text syntax=bash >}}
$ istioctl experimental check-inject -n <namespace> deploy/<deployment-name>
{{< /text >}}

Or, for label pairs:

{{< text syntax=bash >}}
$ istioctl experimental check-inject -n <namespace> -l <label-key>=<label-value>
{{< /text >}}

For example, if you have a deployment named `httpbin` in the `hello` namespace and a pod named `httpbin-1234` with the label `app=httpbin`, the following commands are equivalent:

{{< text syntax=bash >}}
$ istioctl experimental check-inject -n hello httpbin-1234

$ istioctl experimental check-inject -n hello deploy/httpbin

$ istioctl experimental check-inject -n hello -l app=httpbin

> {{< /text >}}

Author: @frankbu Thanks for the review!
